### Analysing Heart Rate Variability
===================================

Heart Rate Variability (HRV) is a physiological signal that reflect our ability to adapt to many stimuli including health condidions, physcial activity and stress. However, the mapping from stimulus to HRV response is highly variable from individual to individual, making its use as an input for predictive modelling a signiﬁcant challenge. While heart rate deﬁnes the number of beats per minute, HRV measures the variation between consecutive heartbeats (known as the RR interval) over short timescales. Near-constant intervals between consecutive heartbeats correspond to low HRV, while highly variable intervals between heartbeats correspond to high HRV. The clinical signiﬁcance of heart rate variability was ﬁrst recognized by Hon and Lee in 1965. They noted that fetal distress was associated with reduced beat-to-beat variation before any notable change happened in the heart rate itself. In 1977, Wolf reported the association between increased mortality and decreased HRV in patients with a myocardial infraction. This was conﬁrmed later by several studies indicating that reduced HRV is associated with higher mortality in patients with acute myocardial infarction, and that HRV is an important indicator of sudden death. There is currently great interest in heart rate variability due to ongoing interactions among clinicians, physiologists, and other scientiﬁc researchers. It has been used as an indicator of many cardiovascular conditions, including hypertension, heart failure, and myocardial infarction, and it has been applied to the prediction of mortality, autonomic balance, exercise response, sleep disorders, and many more [7,8]. HRV is also a useful metric to analyze the functioning of the autonomic nervous system (ANS), which regulates involuntary bodily functions and homeostasis, and is responsive to stress. Changes in the regulatory activity of the ANS are reﬂected in HRV [9], where high HRV reﬂects the better ability of the body to adapt to changing circumstances, and reduced HRV is associated with stress and slower recovery. There are beneﬁts to understanding the state of the ANS at any moment by measuring HRV; for example, researchers have found that ANS function has a signiﬁcant role in predicting instances of sudden cardiac death 

 	